bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Patient Name: RRI079 Accession Number: BR-4979102-MR
Requested Date: April 14, 2020 12:01
Report Status: Final
Requested Procedure: 5198369
Home Phone: Procedure Description: MRI PELVIS
Referring Physician: SHANTHANANTHAN, Modality: MR
GANESH
Organization: City West
Findings
Radiologist: TOPHAM, DEAN
PELVIC MRI
Summary:
Findings consistent with deep infiltrating endometriosis and posterior cul de sac obliteration L>R. Tethered ovaries, posterior
uterine serosa and contiguous serosal plaque on the anterior recto-sigmoid surface. No mucosal rectal extension identified. Left
endometrioma.
No evidence of hydronephrosis or hydroureter to suggest ureteric involvement.
No gross anterior cul de sac disease.
Clinical:
Severe endometriosis involving sigmoid colon and extensive disease pouch of Douglas. ? Ureter involvement.
Technique:
Multi-parametric pelvic MRI fertility protocol including volumetric 3D coronal T2 plus reconstructions, T1 axial pre/post fat saturation.
Findings:
Uterus:
Size & morphology: Anteverted, retroflexed. No septum/ duplication is seen. The uterus is deviated to the right of midline.
Endometrial thickness: 6.5mm.
Junctional zone: Not thickened with no evidence of adenomyosis. No submucosal microcysts.
Uterine lesions: No fibroids seen. No focal myometrial lesion.
Cervix & vagina:
Nabothian cysts seen in the cervix. No focal lesion in the cervix. Vaginal vault unremarkable.
Left ovary:
Position: Adherent to left uterine fundus.
Size: Enlarged measuring approximately 4.5 x 2.5 x 4.4cm. There is a cystic lesion present from the left ovary which contains some
evidence of haemorrhage. This measures approximately 2.9 x 2.3 x 3.2cm and is favoured to relate to an endometrioma.
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Mon, Mar 21, 2022 14:19:39 +1030 - Page 1 of 2

--- Page Break ---

bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Follicle(s): There are at least three follicles seen in the left ovary.
Lesions and/or endometrioma: See above.
Right ovary:
Position: Posterior and superior to the right aspect of the fundus. Medialised.
Size: 1.8 x 1.2 x 2.6cm.
Follicle(s): At least three follicles are seen from the right ovary.
Lesions and/or endometrioma: No adnexal mass or ovarian lesion seen. Right ovary appears adherent to the uterus.
Adnexa:
Minimal physiologic fluid. Supportive features for deep infiltrating endometriosis and fibrosis. Ovaries are medialised and tethered. Deep
cul de sac is obliterated. There is a serosal plaque spanning 28 x 20mm on the anterior surface of the rectosigmoid junction. No mucosal
invasion identified. "Mushroom cap" sign on MRI. Regional sigmoid tethering. No involvement seen involving the urinary bladder. No
hydrosalpinx.
Other findings:
There is no hydronephrosis to suggest distal ureteric involvement. No hydroureter seen. No pleural effusion. Upper abdomen appears
unremarkable.
Dr Dean Topham Dr Steven Knox
Electronically signed 15/04/2020 17:18
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Mon, Mar 21, 2022 14:19:39 +1030 - Page 2 of 2

--- Page Break ---

