bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Patient Name: RRI130 Accession Number: BR-4400810-MR
Patient ID: Requested Date: March 6, 2019 08:35
Gender: Report Status: Final
Date of Birth: Requested Procedure: 4536922
Home Phone: Procedure Description: MRI PELVIS
Referring Physician: SEMMLER, JODIE Modality: MR
Organization: City West
Findings
Radiologist: KNOX, STEVEN
MRI PELVIS
Summary :
The boundaries of the posterior cul-de-sac are significantly improved post surgery and the posterior fibrosis has been divided,
with the depth of the cul-de-sac increased. The fluid through this area contains multiple thin internal septations. It is without
mass effect but does suggest a further evolving peritoneal inclusion cyst in the posterior cul de sac.
There are no active haemorrhagic endometriotic foci identified within the pelvis. There are no discrete ovarian endometriomas.
There is no bowel disease or further evidence of architectural distortion.
On the right side there is suspicion for a progressive hydrosalpinx since the previous study.
Clinical:
Follow up regarding endometriosis and adenomyosis.
Has had previous extensive surgery. Last MRI inclusion cyst left side ?haemorrhagic side right side.
Technique:
3T multi-parametric pelvic MRI protocol including Volumetric 3D Coronal T2 plus reconstructions, T1 axial pre/post fat saturation.
Comparison Study:
MRI pelvis 19/08/2016.
Findings:
Uterus:
Size Morphology: 8cm x 4.8cm x 5cm, 100cc. Enlarged. The lie of the uterus has changed since the prior surgery. The previous deep
posterior cul-de-sac fibrosis has been resected and physiologic fluid now extends appropriately through this area. The uterus shows some
very mild retroflexion. Improved mobilisation of the posterior cul-de-sac post surgically is noted although the fluid in this area does contain
some thin internal septations/loculations. *
Endometrial Thickness: 7.4mm. No endocavitary pathology.
Junctional Zone: Normal junctional zone thickness throughout. Average JZ 5mm. No submucosal microcysts identified to support
adenomyosis.
Uterine Lesions: Nil significant. No subserosal, intramural or submucosal fibroid.
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Mon, Jul 25, 2022 14:46:53 +0930 - Page 1 of 2

--- Page Break ---

bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Cervix and Vagina:
Incidental Nabothian cysts.
Left Ovary:
Position: Left adnexa.
Size: 39 x 23 x 29mm (14ml).
Follicles: Present. Dominant follicle 31mm. Approximately six subcentimetre follicles are noted.
Lesions and/or Endometrioma: Not identified.
Right Ovary:
Position: Right adnexa slightly medialised.
Size: 22 x 13 x 18mm (2.7ml).
Follicles: Present. Approximately eight subcentimetre follicles.
Lesions and/or Endometrioma: Not identified.
Adnexa:
The surgery has improved the posterior cul-de-sac with the prior effacement no longer identified and fluid now insinuating through this
region. There are multiple thin internal loculations through the posterior cul-de-sac fluid however and quite close relationship of this fluid to
the left ovary. Morphologic appearances supports an additional evolving peritoneal inclusion cyst given its loculation.
A tubular serpiginous region adjacent the right ovary is more notable on today's study than previously and has imaging features most
suggestive of an evolving right sided hydrosalpinx. There are no definite haemorrhagic foci identified on the T1 weighted sequences to
support active haemorrhagic endometrial deposits. No bowel disease is seen.
Other Findings:
The levator plate, obturator internus, anal canal with internal and external sphincter all are unremarkable.
Dr Steven Knox Dr Jatinder Shekhawat
Electronically signed 14/03/2019 10:35
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Mon, Jul 25, 2022 14:46:53 +0930 - Page 2 of 2

--- Page Break ---

