bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Patient Name: RRI150 Accession Number: BR-5457130-MR
Patient ID: Requested Date: February 18, 2021 08:44
Gender: Report Status: Final
Date of Birth: Requested Procedure: 5739639
Home Phone: Procedure Description: MRI PELVIS
Referring Physician: NGUYEN, TRAN T T Modality: MR
Organization: North Adelaide
Findings
Radiologist: KNOX, STEVEN
MRI PELVIS
Summary:
Supportive features for deep obliterative posterior cul de sac endometriosis/fibrosis. At the lateral aspect of the right adnexa
there is dense adhesion tethering the right ovary, uterine fundus and posterior serosal surface and involving the uterosacral
ligament. There are multifocal linear bands which extend to the serosal surface of the distal sigmoid. At the rectosigmoid
junction is a plaque present at the serosal surface containing some active haemorrhagic foci. No mucosal surface involvement is
identified however. No additional findings of note.
Clinical:
Previous left salpingo-oophorectomy and right ovarian cystectomy for severe endometriosis. Anal pain, urinary and faecal urgency ?deep
infiltrating endometriosis.
Worksheet = G0 P0, surgery for endometriosis May 2020.
Technique:
Multi-parametric pelvic MRI fertility protocol including Volumetric 3D Coronal T2 plus reconstructions, T1 axial pre/post fat saturation.
Findings:
Uterus:
Size & morphology: Anteverted and slightly retroflexed. Distorted and deviated to the right of midline due to posterior cul de sac
endometriosis/fibrosis. Size 63 x 33 x 49mm. Conventional uterine anatomy without septum or duplication.
Endometrial thickness: ET = 3mm. There is no endocavitary pathology.
Junctional zone: Normal junctional zone thickness throughout. No expansion to support adenomyosis or submucosal microcysts. Anterior
JZ 4mm, fundal JZ 3mm, posterior JZ 5mm.
Uterine lesions: No lesions identified.
Cervix & vagina:
No cervical or vaginal lesions are identified.
Left ovary:
Surgically absent.
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Mon, Mar 21, 2022 14:54:26 +1030 - Page 1 of 2

--- Page Break ---

bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Right ovary:
Position: Right lateral adnexa adherent to uterine fundus.
Size: 29 x 18 x 25mm.
Follicle(s): Present. Approximately four follicles are identified. Dominant follicle 23mm.
Lesions and/or endometrioma: Not identified.
Adnexa:
Supportive features of chronic deep posterior cul de sac endometriosis/fibrosis. There is a dense area of scarring which extends along the
right uterosacral ligament, with tethering of the uterus, right ovary and also multifocal rectosigmoid adhesions. The upper rectum and distal
sigmoid show multifocal macroscopic adhesions which tether to the serosal surface of the bowel. At the rectosigmoid junction is a plaque
containing a small focus of active haemorrhagic material. The thickness measures 7mm but does not appear to extend to the mucosal
surface. Plaque extends over a length of around 20mm. No hydrosalpinx is identified. No collection. Minimal physiologic fluid within the
pelvis. The anorectal junction is unremarkable. Tampon is in situ.
Dr Steven Knox Dr Yen-Lee Leong
Electronically signed 19/02/2021 11:27
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Mon, Mar 21, 2022 14:54:26 +1030 - Page 2 of 2

--- Page Break ---

