bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Patient Name: RRI453 Accession Number: BR-5553137-MR
Patient ID: Requested Date: April 19, 2021 14:46
Gender: Report Status: Final
Date of Birth: Requested Procedure: 5849338
Home Phone: Procedure Description: MRI PELVIS
Referring Physician: RUSTAMOV, OYBEK Modality: MR
Organization: Christies Beach
Findings
Radiologist: KNOX, STEVEN
MRI PELVIS
Summary:
Conventional uterine anatomy, without septum or duplication.
No evidence of adenomyosis or significant uterine endocavitary pathology. No uterine lesion.
There are no features of a deep obliterative posterior cul-de-sac endometriosis/fibrosis. Some old scarring however is favoured
to the right side of the deep posterior cul-de-sac and the ovary on the right also intimately associated with this area. No active
endometriotic foci is seen. Minimal architectural distortion. No bowel disease. No hydrosalpinx.
Normal ovarian follicular activity. Dominant follicle on the left.
Clinical:
IVF. Repeated implantation failure. History of endometriosis. Rule out adenomyosis and severe endometriosis.
Technique:
Multi-parametric pelvic MRI fertility protocol including Volumetric 3D Coronal T2 plus reconstructions, T1 axial pre/post fat saturation.
Findings:
Uterus:
Size & morphology: Retroverted, retroflexed. Size (uterine body and cervix) 73 x 44 x 51mm. Conventional uterine anatomy without septum
or duplication.
Endometrial thickness: ET = 6mm. No endocavitary pathology.
Junctional zone: Normal junctional zone thickness throughout. No expansion as evidence of adenomyosis or submucosal microcyst.
Junctional zone measures 5mm anteriorly, 5mm at fundus and 6mm posteriorly.
Uterine lesions: Not identified.
Cervix & vagina:
No cervical or vaginal lesions of note identified.
Left ovary:
Position: Anterior lateral left adnexa/pelvis.
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Wed, Nov 23, 2022 16:07:49 +1030 - Page 1 of 2

--- Page Break ---

bensonradiology.com.au
support@bensonconnect.com.au
Size: 26 x 26 x 26mm (6.3ml).
Follicle(s): Present. Dominant follicle 16mm. Approximately 20 subcentimetre follicles.
Lesions and/or endometrioma: Not identified.
Right ovary:
Position: Medialised posterior lower right adnexa.
Size: 34 x 14 x 18mm (4.5ml).
Follicle(s): Present. Approximately 20 subcentimetre follicles.
Lesions and/or endometrioma: Not identified.
Adnexa:
The deep central posterior cul-de-sac contains fluid and does not appear obliterated. There is however some asymmetric peritoneal
thickening along the deep posterior right cul-de-sac with the ovary very closely applied to this on the right and somewhat medialised. This
would support old endometriosis/fibrosis. Some slight thickening of the right uterosacral ligament relative to the left. There are no active
haemorrhagic foci identified or associated bowel disease. The uterine retroflexion does not appear related to dense plaque formation, with
some smooth scarring favoured over the lower posterior central uterine serosal/cervix. Free fluid is seen in this area, with no obliterative
change. The anterior cul-de-sac appears unremarkable and without obliterative change. No hydrosalpinx.
Other findings:
Degenerate mild changes to the lower lumbar facets. No additional intrapelvic features of note.
Dr Steven Knox
Electronically signed 20/04/2021 08:38
Relevant Clinical Information
CB-MRI PELVIS
Intelerad Medical Systems - Report exported on Wed, Nov 23, 2022 16:07:49 +1030 - Page 2 of 2

--- Page Break ---

